# The 'revenge of ancient American business' pushes U.S. equities higher
**Jeff Marks**

**2023-10-24 15:30**

**https://www.cnbc.com/2023/10/24/the-revenge-of-ancient-american-business-pushes-us-equities-higher.html**

Every weekday the CNBC Investing Club with Jim Cramer holds a Morning Meeting livestream at 10:20 a.m. ET. Here's a recap of Tuesday's key moments. 1. U.S. stocks climbed higher Tuesday, with the S & P 500 up 0.82%, on the back of better-than-expected earnings reports from aerospace-focused industrials like General Electric (GE) and RTX Corp. (RTX). "The revenge of ancient American business is upon us," Jim Cramer said Tuesday. Meanwhile, the yield on the 10-year Treasury pulled back slightly, to just under 4.9%. Oil prices also retreated, with West Texas Intermediate crude down 0.88%, at $84.6 a barrel. And the S & P 500 Short Range Oscillator moved squarely into oversold territory, at minus 4.51%, signaling it's time to buy. 2. And buy we did, picking up 30 additional shares of life sciences firm Danaher (DHR) Tuesday morning. The company reported better-than-expected third-quarter results before the opening bell, but the stock ultimately pulled back on investor uncertainty over when the company's bioprocessing business will fully recover. But Danaher management indicated that bioprocessing should return to growth in 2024 after the company's clears its excess inventory. "Sentiment in the stock is as low as its ever been," Jim said Tuesday, giving us a buying opportunity in a company with bright long-term prospects. 3. Club holdings Microsoft (MSFT) and Alphabet (GOOGL) report quarterly results after the closing bell Tuesday. With Microsoft , revenue growth at its cloud division, Azure, is the key line item to watch: when should investors expect growth to accelerate as a result of artificial intelligence? And does management expect the PC business to bottom soon? For Alphabet, we expect both revenue growth and profit margins to expand, bolstered by a recovering advertising market. (Jim Cramer's Charitable Trust is long DHR, MSFT, GOOGL. See here for a full list of the stocks.) As a subscriber to the CNBC Investing Club with Jim Cramer, you will receive a trade alert before Jim makes a trade. Jim waits 45 minutes after sending a trade alert before buying or selling a stock in his charitable trust's portfolio. If Jim has talked about a stock on CNBC TV, he waits 72 hours after issuing the trade alert before executing the trade. THE ABOVE INVESTING CLUB INFORMATION IS SUBJECT TO OUR TERMS AND CONDITIONS AND PRIVACY POLICY , TOGETHER WITH OUR DISCLAIMER . NO FIDUCIARY OBLIGATION OR DUTY EXISTS, OR IS CREATED, BY VIRTUE OF YOUR RECEIPT OF ANY INFORMATION PROVIDED IN CONNECTION WITH THE INVESTING CLUB. NO SPECIFIC OUTCOME OR PROFIT IS GUARANTEED.